You mentioned the National Digital Library.
Well, the National Digital Library project at the Library of Congress is our major digitization effort.
The overall goal is to digitize five million items by the year 2000.
Five million.
Five million, which is the library.
The year 2000 is the goal because that's our bicentennial, which will...
Are these considered unique items?
These are unique items from the Library of Congress's historical Americana collections right now.
Five million unique items.
Amazing.
Right.
Could you characterize them?
Well, yeah, I can.
The examples, and I'll show you the sheet off which we're working, of collections.
These are big chunks of research collections.
For example, the...
photographs of the Depression years, the OWI, Office of War Information, Farm Security Administration photographs, the famous Roy Stryker, Dorothea Lange, all of those.
That's a collection that's being given to the world through the Internet, through the digital library project.
and as i've said when that goes up on the library home page we also have a learning page of educators who are working on ways to get kids k-12 to make use of this and put it into a broader context an educational context the center for the book is in fact working with these educators to help do that our contribution is really reading this but they're doing
Much more.
By and large, books are not being digitized.
By and large, these are special collections of manuscripts, of maps.
Another example would be the Civil War photographs from the Library of Congress.
Another example would be Detroit Publishing Company's photographic collections.
Manuscripts from the WPA, again, which was a government-sponsored project, so it belongs to us, the government.
Sure.
These first-person narratives.
And so this is part of your holdings in the National Archives.
These are our holdings.
We're not digitizing theirs.
You know, since Archives wasn't created until 1935, we in effect also were the National Archives up until...
Really, 1950.
And as you said before, you put on the paper putter, you were also the repository for presidential papers.
That's right.
Before the presidential... Well, I think it's up to FDR, to the Hyde Park Library.
We go through Coolidge.
And Hoover, of course, has his own.
It's up really to Hoover, I guess.
But we've gotten money...
for the digital library, specifically now to digitize some manuscript collectors.
Reuters, for example, gave us a million dollars to digitize
the Washington and the Jefferson papers.
Reuters.
The news service.
The digital library, the estimate is that it's a $60 million project.
Isn't that a British outfit?
Yeah, but they have... Yes, they are.
That's their... But they're also interested in... I mean, they're based here as well.
But the overall...
The cost is $60 million.
About $45 million is coming from the private sector, and Mr. Gingrich likes this project, and the agreement is that over a five-year period, the Congress will provide roughly $15 million, $3 million a year for this project.
But you'll get more from Dr. Billington.
You have your lunch.
You and I. I certainly think it behooves me to get some quotes from the library.
And I've spent time with Paul Beclair at the New York Public, and I was out at the San Francisco Public Library a couple weeks ago.
I'm going up to Cornell next week.
I'm going to write about Sarajevo.
I'm going to write about Cornell's effort to try and replenish the lost collections in Cambodia, which nobody really knows anything about.
I'm really interested in technology, the canon wars.
I'm just a very discressive kind of book, not unlike this one.
I mean, I really write about the things that engage me.
I research it to death, and I do a lot of interviews.
Well, I can think of two or three stories attached with the library that you might want to
want to look into.
One would be the largest library fire in history.
It was in Leningrad in 1988, February 1988, and destroyed, what, 400,000 books completely, and water damaged 3 million.
And Peter Waters, who's in our preservation department, I got raised some money for it.
immediately got some money from the Regis Digest Foundation.
And we went over there with Peter, and they designed a kind of phased conservation program for them.
He'd done the same thing with the Los Angeles Fire, which is a much smaller library fire.
So library fires and the obligation of, I think the Library of Congress has a pretty honorable role in trying to help people that have been fire damaged.
Another example would be Kuwait, the National Library of Kuwait, which has been partly refitted out of the duplicate collections in our Cairo office.
We have these overseas offices.
Now duplicate, what kinds of items?
English?
No, we're the largest Arabic language library in the world.
So they lost their own... They lost their own library.
So you basically replenished... Well, we're helping replenish it.
I mean, you can't do it all, but we're providing a number of key elements for it.
But that's because we actually have Arab duplicates in our Cairo office.
That leads in turn to the story of our overseas offices, which where in third world countries where there's no book trade or where there's an inadequately developed book trade, we do the basic purchasing.
I mean, you're going to see Cornell talk about the Southeast Asian thing, but they are one of the customers for our
Jakarta office, which does Southeast Asia purchasing.
That is interesting.
John was mentioning today that you have half a dozen field offices, I guess.
Yeah.
Well, Susan Thomas, who is now the new librarian at Cornell, used to be here with us.
She was head of cataloging here.
Sarah Thomas.
I mean, Sarah Thomas.
What did I say?
Susan?
Yeah.
I'll probably meet her next week.
You will.
Sarah.
No, she's very, and she knows a lot about library, because she can tell you a lot about the Library of Congress, too.
Anyhow, those are just some examples that come to mind on that front, because I think the... You mentioned Pergamon.
Of course, Pergamon... I think Pergamon's the most haunting site of classical antiquity in the Mediterranean Basin.
To me, it beats everything in Greece or Italy.
And why is that?
Well, just if you go there, you'll see what I mean.
First of all...
It's the most spectacular theater.
It opens up.
It's very high over the wine-dark sea, as Homer called it.
And you can sort of sense the whole thing.
Of course, the Anatolian ruins are the greatest Ephesus I've been to.
Ephesus is grander in the sense that it's a huge city there.
You can really see the dimensions of it.
But pergolum is a jewel.
jewel, Ephesus is a feast.
But Pergamon, and particularly the theater, you see there's no trace of, of course, parchment comes from Pergamon, we assume.
And of course, the library was
completely gutted because of the Alexandria fire.
Cleopatra got the... I have it in my book, chapter two.
Okay, well, I haven't read that, but I use it in a speech.
I use this as an example, a speech of my own.
It was a gift to the girlfriend, basically.
Taking it all from replacing what was lost in the fire, and so forth.
But what you can get a sense of is two things.
One is the attempt to cure the
the body, the whole complex baths and system of sort of health exercises.
But the really impressive thing is the theater, because the background plays seem to have been acted with a backdrop of a sheer drop into the thing, so that you can see the Greek tragedies being acted over a cliff somehow, and this spectacular view of the backdrop, instead of having a
scenery, you just have the vast Mediterranean spreading out all the way to Sicily.
You don't quite see that far, but you sort of think you are.
Well, that's great.
That's a good, useful quote, because this opening chapter is really going to be almost a little travel on.
But they suggest the continuum through the centuries and the contribution of each place.
Unfortunately, there's no rec left in Alexandria, although they are building a new library there, as you guys mentioned.
But that has nothing to do with
with the ancient library.
John kindly showed me around today.
It took me to where we saw some scanning going on with some maps.
And they gave me a brief introduction to this National Digital Library that you're working on.
And of course, a concluding chapter of this book will deal with libraries of the future, this debate that's going on about print culture.
And I wonder if you have any thoughts on the eve of this new millennium
You know, as the nation's librarian— Well, I think you ought to know what we're doing at the— I mean, I have very few thoughts independently of what the Library of Congress is doing right now, because I'm kind of 100 percent involved in the life of the institution.
But what we are doing—we are not digitizing books, basically.
We're digitizing special material.
What we're really doing is trying to use digitization to bring special materials into the world of books.
They've always been physically in libraries.
I mean, libraries have always had maps, or not all libraries, but the larger the library, the more likely they are to have special collections, documentary photographs, maps, posters, cartoons, broadsides, and, of course, manuscript materials, maybe recorded sound movies, that kind of thing.
The non-book materials.
Now, the Library of Congress has enormous collections at this time.
Two-thirds of our items are non-book items.
Maybe even more than that, depends how you compute it.
But that sort of material, the books and periodicals have always been accessible because books, of course, were an enormous democratizing factor.
The portable book, as distinguished from the great Clovial volumes,
were designed to be taken out and widely distributed in and out of libraries and so forth.
But the special materials are usually only in one copy, whether it's a manuscript or a map or whatever, and they've not been widely available in their original artifactual form, unlike books.
But by digitizing them, you can make them available in compact and accessible
so that they're really available not just for research but for the curious, for the interested mind.
And they can be searched, played with, and so forth.
They can be browsed electronically.
And basically you bring them into the world of books in the sense that you bring them into the world of interactivity where an investment of the person's
active thinking is involved as it is in reading.
You don't, unlike television, say, which is totally passive, and it feels basically to the, increasingly activates the emotions rather than the intellect.
You have to use your mind to use an archival resource like this, but it brings that into the world.
The books, and our image of it, is that the first instance goes into libraries and schools,
where there are books, and where there are teachers, and where the interaction between people and books, where the people and ideas is contained in books, and where the ultimate value is a train of thought rather than a bumper car of emotion, all that is what we're trying to do with the digital library.
We are not trying to replace the traditional print culture with a new culture.
We're trying to add something which can't be avoided
In any case, this is the way, I mean, at the National Library of the United States, we have to stockpile information and knowledge, however it's packaged, for the government of the United States and for the scholarly community.
So we couldn't avoid, because we'll soon be getting deposits in digital form, anyhow, we couldn't avoid the digital revolution even if we wanted to.
We thought we should.
Because this is the way more and more knowledge is being packaged, more and more information is being communicated.
And so we have to stockpile it in some sense.
But we're also creating it because we want to extend the basic library principle of access to materials to extend it beyond Washington and beyond
just the classical mode of interlibrary loan or the simple duplication or Xeroxing of a few pages of an article or a book.
We want to make this other stuff available and bring it into the world.
Do you foresee a time when scholars will not have access to the primary
material that they will only be allowed, say, to use digitized copies?
Well, I hope not.
I mean, I think that would be a dangerous step for democracy to put itself into.
I mean, I don't want to see that kind of power in anybody's hands with a switch.
So, but I think that there is essential, I think, to handle the original document.
Yeah, I think it's, well, we're not, when anything we digitize, we don't throw away the original.
A lot of people do.
But in terms of access, though, you don't then deny access?
No, no, no, we don't deny access.
I mean, we've had to restrict access to the stacks, but we haven't restricted access to the books or to the lectures.
The lectures.
And you oversee that kind of thought that comes to mind.
No, no, no, not over my dead body.
That's a good quote, but I'll use it too.
You can't.
We're not going to, I mean, there's no point having this stuff if it isn't available.
And also, it's important, not just for the expert, but for everybody to be in touch with the, I mean, I think there's an intrinsic
value to being in touch with the original artifact.
But there's also an extrinsic value as well, and you've got to preserve bold.
Stephen Jay Gould tells me that he really can't write from facsimile.
Maybe it's a mystical kind of a thing or some sort of transference.
But he said, I have to handle the manuscript.
I have to handle the original manuscript or the book.
He likes the whole first edition.
Yeah, I think the book's going to be around for a long time, and I think there are a lot of materials.
My own sort of general anticipation is that if our evolution is relatively rational, which is by no means guaranteed in the human species, would be that a lot of things that used to be in books, I mean, World Almanac types of information,
That'll be all online because it'll be constantly updated.
And you don't, by the time, I mean, most books which basically contain it in part up-to-date information are out-of-date by the time they're printed, even in a fast printing operation.
I was out at Stanford a couple of weeks ago, and the press there is actually publishing very technical journals strictly online.
I mean, there will be no printed books.
And they argue, well, look,
In the best instance, you might sell 600 copies of this thing, and they're going to cost $150 a volume.
And they're obsolete the day they're issued anyway.
And now I can see that as a decided advantage.
Well, I think what you're going to see is the great hope.
And this is one of my hopes for the Library of Congress.
It's something I haven't talked to somebody new even to John, who's collecting memory of the Library of Congress.
But one of the things that I see
the revolution, freeing up books to become.
There has been a degradation of the book in the last 30 years or 40 years by the academic monograph.
There has been a, because of hyper-specialization and the bureaucratization.
Thanks.
Where did I leave it, Janet?
In the car.
In the car?
Oh, my goodness.
Well, I shouldn't have.
What an indignity for you to have to get my apology.
I'm so tired.
We tax Janet's patients.
Thank you very much, Janet.
I apologize.
That was really stupid.
I could have sworn I brought it in.
But what you're seeing, and that's a different kind of thing.
I think, first of all, data and information is going to be transmitted online.
It will be very inefficiently.
It's always been inefficiently packaged in books, and that will be almost entirely done.
So a lot of
books that are just containing data and information, those will be.
But now we're talking about the more serious type of books, which contain sort of histories, biographies, novels, poetry, the serious kind of traditional literature that has always been in book form.
That's going to be freed up from the burden, from book publishing, in effect,
playing a role in the certification of the academic guilds by struggling things into publication that are always of very limited interest, that are written in jargon for a narrow audience, that aren't written in a language that enriches and improves and extends the human condition, but are merely written in kind of bad functional forms of communication among experts.
That stuff should go online.
And that's going to help academia, because much more of it, there's a real...
There's a real divide in academia between those who get their books published and those who don't.
So there's an unfair sorting out of academia because a lot of wonderful PhD theses never get published.
A lot of lousy ones do.
And that's a totally irrational process for its functionality in academia.
But in terms of enriching the general culture
of the country, and appealing to a broader audience which never reads any of these academic monographs, the ones published or unpublished.
So you'll get much more available because it'll be available online, and you'll have much less artificial gradations on the basis of what gets published and who's able to kind of, who's fashionable with these academic guilds.
So you get much less pomposity and much more democracy in academia and among the specialized guilds.
On the other hand, you will then free up the publishing world to become things which they have not on the whole been, things which are synthetic, that put things together rather than just take them apart.
The whole business of what the great word used in the think tanks is disaggregate.
Everything is disaggregated.
That means it's turned into numbers.
Of course, digitization is turning letters into numbers.
You turn words into letters and then letters into numbers.
You turn everything into numbers, zeros and ones.
Only two numbers, zeros and ones, you see.
So the question is, there are two questions.
What should never be subjected to this process and should be written and in a form where one
Coherent mind is communicating with another coherent mind, which is what books really are.
Books really put things together between two covers.
There's a finality.
There's a kind of unity.
There's a kind of synthesis involved in a book.
Your book's a good example.
You take a lot of different kinds of information and material, and it has a coherence and an interest.
And it's one mind working.
There are very few good books that are the product of committees.
The King James Bible comes to mind.
That's probably the one example.
Well, if you have both shared belief and a shared culture of language, you can produce that.
There are other prices— That's my only—actually, that's the only
Well, we're not sure it was really a committee.
I mean, I don't think a committee would have cleared some of that language.
You always lose metaphors in a committee.
Anyhow, it's a good point, though.
What we will hope to get, what I hope we can get in the Library of Congress, I mean, there are
Two things.
We have to be in the digital revolution.
We have to share more of what we have here that's been stored in taxpayer access with more people or where the taxpayers aren't going to continue to fund it.
So we have both a moral and practical obligation to do this.
We also have a possibility.
This is what is on the horizon for us.
We have a possibility of encouraging and fostering
with the reopening of this building, and by making internally our special collections more available, and by turning more of our people into knowledge navigators from being just processors and technical people, we have the possibility of fostering a kind of synthetic scholarship that the universities were set up to produce but no longer do, since there are no educational ideas in universities.
They're simply factories.
you know, huge bureaucracies administering feudal dukdoms with their own private languages.
They're not really basically contributing to the common culture.
So it opens up an opportunity for your library.
It's a library like the Republic and a guy like Paul, who is a person of considerable culture himself.
and other large libraries, Boston Public, as well as some of your great university libraries, have a capacity to be places where you get back into what I like to use, this phrase from Keats about silence is slow time.
That's what reading is, and that's what thinking is.
And so you get a chance to slow down the onrush, the digital stuff,
is not the onrush of megabytes and miniseconds and all that kind of stuff.
It's basically making a lot of this stuff available back for browsing and thinking in a context where the books are also present.
So you can start making connections between different formats of expression.
You can start again putting things together rather than just taking them apart.
And so you have more books that put things together rather than take them apart.
Most books now
These are academic books that take things apart.
They're super specialized.
Or they're scandal books that take people apart.
I mean, if you look at what the bestsellers are, these are technically, artifactually books.
But, you know.
The New York Times doesn't really review its own bestseller list.
Yeah.
Particularly in fiction.
I mean, if you look at the top books, they don't even review them.
So what I would hope is that we will, by the time I leave this place, we will have created an ambience that I don't expect the books to have been written, in which a new kind of book will be written.
Not a new kind of book, actually an old kind of book will be written in a new age with a lot of new material and using a lot of languages and a lot of formats.
But basically coming up with a kind of...
creative wholeness that books ought to represent.
And I think that if we can keep the internet from being too strictly censored, a lot of the garbage that's now in books scandals the stuff that's written around here about scandalizing this person and coming up with that bit of gossip about this person and that.
I want to tell it because this collection
I mean, I don't know that I should divulge people in this because I'm, you know, I'm the neutral.
But this was during the SNL?
SNL, there was a major conversation.
I know the Magic Collection, of course.
Well, that's one.
David Copperfield.
Yeah.
One of the few cases where something that was, the RTC sold for twice as much than it was paid for.
In the instance of books,
The government actually got more money.
That one they actually were able to sell, although his buying it meant that it was taken out of it.
It could have been public access.
But otherwise it would have been broken up and sold.
Would have been broken up.
At least there you had an individual buyer, but there are some cases where it didn't work out quite that well.
But what I was going to say was the interesting, to me, it's important to me because this is the book collection out of which I grew.
was a book collection that my father assembled.
No first editions, no trophy books, all books that were read.
They were, first of all, read by somebody else, because we could only afford, growing up, used books.
I'm writing two books, by the way.
One was about collecting like this.
These were all used books.
On the other hand, my father developed in his amateur sort of way a way of kind of restoring and so on.
He would paste his own little labels on books.
So they were loved the way a collector does, better than most collectors of expensive books.
You still have these books?
Well, not as many as I'd like, unfortunately.
I have some of them, but not too many.
Eclectic or focused?
It was sort of focused.
It had a certain focus.
I mean, there were things he liked.
And it was a sort of, it was a great late Victorian collection, basically.
And did you enjoy it?
Oh, yeah, no.
Well, you enjoyed it for two reasons.
One, but mainly because it was red.
It wasn't decorative.
It was in the living room.
I mean, the house was built around my father's books and my mother's piano.
That was the living room.
Where was this?
That's where we lived.
This was in Norbert, Pennsylvania.
Uh-huh.
which is Philadelphia, really, just outside Philadelphia, but a very small house.
Now, it was interesting because the used books from Leary's bookstore often were underlined, and that in itself was interesting.
That's how I got interested in scholarship.
Why do they underline this rather than that?
I mean, I was always kind of curious.
So you were always kind of guessing who the previous owner had been.
Some of them weren't.
I mean, I'm not doing him full justice because he occasionally got a really beautiful edition or something.
But when he got a beautiful edition, it was appreciated.
It was because it was sort of the exception rather than the rule.
And, you know, I've been in so many fancy, since I've had this job, fancy libraries of people where, you know, just looking at books that I don't think any of them have ever read.
I mean, it's a form of
of decoration and investment.
I quote Lawrence Rock's essay, and this is quite coincidental for the title of my book, but the chief end of book madness, which is the role that the collector has had in creating great collections.
They come here, they go to New York Public, they go all over the country.
That's kind of what I wrote about in there.
Right.
The productive end of the book is fake.
But I mean, it's not very glamorous to describe something like this, but the fact of the matter is that if you have somebody who is not only collecting books, but is kind of reading and in a kind of perpetual state of browsing, and if that person happens to be your father, you have an enormous leg up on life.
I mean, because, you know, he's just, he was just constantly saying, you know, this is, you know, listen to this poem, or, you know.
What did your father do?
He sold insurance.
And he never, you know, went to college, never had really much of a formal education at all.
But, and selling insurance is a tough business if you have contacts from college.
So he, you know, he was sort of educated in the College of Foreign Arts, but he was, he was very, he was,
Great reader, and he loved, and he was very eclectic, and he read all kinds of things.
And some things he just got, because they were in the, in Leary's, they got downgraded.
In Philly?
Yeah, in Philly.
One of the great used book stories of all time.
I mean, the only one that's ever even close with foils in London.
The old foils is distinguished from what it is now.
And the one in Portland, Oregon, when we were out there, that's very impressive.
That's right.
That was very impressive.
It was worth going out there just to see.
I'm afraid they've modernized.
They've become another crown bookstore.
Not quite that they have as many new books as you've done.
Expanded New York is fun.
I don't know if you've been up to this.
I haven't been there lately, but no, I've got to go just to reassure me that there's someplace where this happens.
It's wonderful.
But they don't do probably what Leary said.
Leary's?
was pretty rigorous.
First of all, they'd let you completely alone, so you could read there all day.
Nobody would put the slightest pressure on it, which my father basically did.
He used the library too, but he loved Leary's because there was always the option of buying and taking it home.
But after a while, they would put things in the dollar bin.
Then after a couple of weeks in the dollar bin, they were rigorously put in the 50-cent bin and then the quarter bin.
The system of knowledge dined.
And so occasionally, you know, my father always makes elegant calculations about whether he'd take a gamble and wait at Cox's House of Wall Street in four volumes.
It's going to survive the two weeks into the 50-cent bin or not.
And, you know, this is... This is depression time.
So, I mean, we're talking about, you know, a fairly... You know, I mean, I...
I had never eaten a steak until I went to college.
I didn't even know what a steak was.
I mean, we had to eat once a week.
I mean, we weren't hungry.
You could go hungry.
That turns out to have been a good diet.
But, I mean, there was that kind of trade-off when he was buying books, so that it wasn't just some sort of gelatinous thing he did with extra money that he'd inherited from his parents.
Do you have siblings in the house?
Yeah, my brothers.
professor of engineering at Princeton.
So you acquired this love of books from your professor?
Yeah, we both did.
I mean, and we went into very different fields.
Did he recommend books, or did he just kind of invite you?
Oh, yeah.
No, no, no.
He would recommend books, and he would say, you know, he would recommend books that were very much out of fashion.
They were already going out of fashion then.
But the great characteristic of a kind of late Victorian library is, you know, you're at the end of the long tradition of the elegant use of the English language.
And there's no substitute for reading this in these books.
I mean, you know, you read Trollope, but then you read, I mean, things like The World of William Plissel by H.G.
Wells, all this kind of late Victorian stuff, which is everybody.
I mean, critics say it's terrible, you know, it's all...
and everything of Galsworthy who was a big favorite that kind of stuff and of course it was marvelous and then when I got into Russian things I wouldn't have gotten anything out of Russian things if I hadn't really had this background because I immediately related War and Peace which when I have to do one little piece on how did you get into the Russian field and so forth and
because I did get in very early.
I started taking Russian language very early.
War and Peace I can relate to because I'd read The Forsyth Dog.
I mean, it was, you know, the story, a long story, based on a family and so forth, was the kind of things you read.
Of course, these Dickens novels and so forth, which you had to read some in school.
Usually, you read one Dickens novel in high school, and you hated it so much that you never...
you never read another one and used Dickens as a sort of a... So there's a direct link between the reading in your house and the professional voice you took.
Yeah, absolutely.
I mean, I wouldn't have had the intellectual curiosity, but also I wouldn't have had the sense of standards.
I mean, whether you liked... I mean, he had opinions about books.
He had things that he liked, and
So you were immediately, you got involved in the business of sort of not merely reading, but having an opinion about.
How many volumes do you think approximately the library might have been?
I would guess, it wasn't great, it wasn't large, because the library wasn't that large, but I would guess
He certainly had about a thousand books, something like that, maybe eight hundred thousand books.
But that was basically your core curriculum, wasn't it?
That was my core curriculum, yeah.
And I was, I mean, I can re-imagine visually that entire library.
I mean, that was the physical geography of my early life.
And you'd probably love to have all of them.
I'd love to have them all back, and I'm very sorry that they got disassembled.
They probably went to the Salvation Army, right?
Well, they went to different things.
Mother died early, and then my father remarried, and his second wife wasn't as interested in the books as the first one was, and somehow they just seemed to... Briefly, I was out at Corvus a couple of weeks ago.
Are you...
Can you enlighten me on anything that the Library of Congress will be doing with Corvus and their digitization?
Well, I don't know.
I think we're going to have to probably talk to them.
I'm both interested and a little disturbed by what I read about them.
I haven't talked to them lately.
I talked to the head of their earlier incarnation, Continuum, I think it was called.
Right, it was Continuum.
But, no, I have a certain dialogue going with the...
some of those people out there.
Charles Mazi, I guess.
No, I haven't talked to them lately, and I don't know, maybe you can tell me.
There's an article that I just read in one of these magazines about Corvus.
This was an introductory trip for me until I basically... I'm concerned.
I don't know whether... I mean, I'm concerned because we're trying to... We're devoting a lot of energy to raising philanthropic money so we can
get the contents out free and extend the principle of access to public libraries.
And if they're going to be, and we think that's fine if other people could pick this stuff up and repackage it and use it.
The jacket of my book, the Durer engraving, I got from here.
It cost me $7.50.
The only other copy of that book is at the Morgan, and they wanted something like $500.
So I guess which one I used.
And that's the kind of thing you're talking about.
Well, exactly.
But I think we are trying to make things accessible.
And if other people are trying to make money out of it, it limits the openness and the expansiveness of access to knowledge and adjuncts to creativity, which ought to be as much of it as can be made possible.
I mean, our job as a National Library of the United States is to make as much of it available as cheaply as possible to as many people as possible.
But that's the experience I have.
I'm just magnifying the experience I personally have.
You know, I was lucky enough that my father bought this stuff,
That was a pretty big library for Narbuth, Pennsylvania.
I mean, Narbuth is the... Now, what's the name of the town again?
Narbuth, Pennsylvania.
It's the one unfashionable stop on the... How do you spell it?
N-A-R-B-E-R-T-H.
Okay.
So I don't have to... It's a great town.
But it's just sort of small-town America.
Most of Philadelphia is small-town America.
But the point is that...
Getting access to knowledge is, we think, and John's been very articulate on this as we were getting ready for our bicentennial, that democracy has to be knowledge-based.
It has to be, if you're going to have responsible people, they have to have information.
The principle of Library of Congress is fascinating because the same information that's available to legislators is available to people who elect them.
Now that's a principle that doesn't
apply in most political polities in human history.
So if we're going to have an electronic library, there ought to be things available to everybody as near to free as possible.
And that's what we're trying to do.
Now, if other people are, and we're trying to raise money, so not just for ourselves, we've got this $2 million grant from Ameritech for other research libraries, and none of that will go to us, we're just mediating it out to other libraries to get their stuff digitized, so that they do.
We think it's good for the research libraries, because they establish it, not just Library of Congress, but other major research libraries, are doing something for people who don't use research libraries, for the ordinary schools and libraries around the country.
They're sharing it.
And that's the whole principle.
That's why you have it in your library alone.
That's why you have a kind of cooperative sense of enterprise among libraries.
They're not competitive with each other.
They try to help each other as much as possible.
If the resources of public institutions are going to be taken up by people now, I don't know whether they have, Corbis has exclusive
No, they don't.
But what they have is, you know... They get something, though.
They get some preferential treatment.
We can't give any preferential treatment.
No, you can't.
But what they're saying is, we will have a catalog.
You will be able to get it.
Just the same as Otto Bettman did.
You know, Otto had pictures that were in the public domain, but he had a catalog, and you could order it from him, and they would furnish it at a price.
And these largely are non-exclusive agreements, but what they are doing is, because of the...
the exclusive nature of what they're offering in terms of this catalog.
I mean, this fellow told me he was in France, and somebody said, gee, we'd like to see this certain bacteria.
What's the big bacteria that's been in the news lately?
You think you have a picture of it?
They punched it up.
E. coli bacteria.
There it was.
They had six pictures of it.
So if you wanted something like that immediately, you could buy that.
One time use.
But is the catalog available?
Is that online?
It's online.
I see.
And that's what they're doing.
So what they're doing is offering you at a price something that they can furnish to you immediately.
And, you know, it's a rather ingenious scheme if it works.
I was just wondering, and then just one final question, because you do mention what you see as your mandate of making so many things available.
And I haven't seen this report, but so many people have
I understand there's a GAO report that says that with the funding situation, that one of the options facing the government is to actually close the Library of Congress to public use.
Are you familiar with such a report?
Well, sure.
No, but it isn't quite that.
This is GAO subcontracted this out to Booz Allen Hamilton, and they came up with a report that suggested they weren't asked to do this, but they just gratuitously
suggested presumably to endear themselves to the cutting mentality and get future commissions for other such drastic Draconian studies.
I'm being a little indiscreet there.
If you want to say off the record, say off the record.
Yeah, I put that off the record because I would have
I mean, there was good things in the study too, but they made this gratuitous recommendation that we should cease being a universal collection and that we should be a switchboard that would be able to identify where we should get rid of these expensive collections to maintain and we should just become a
entirely electronic operation.
And a library just for Congress, apparently.
Yeah, and just, well, and so that we can locate, we have full access to where everything is, but we don't actually assume the expense of keeping it up or maintaining the universal collection.
Well, that was... What was your reaction to that?
Well, my reaction was totally negative and confrontational, and we went after tooth and nail.
I gave lengthy testimonies.
We got, and we got, I must say, total support from the Congress, including very eloquent support from Gingrich, who completely rejected the study.
And he gave a very eloquent, explicitly rejected this recommendation.
And then Tom Daschle, who was from the other party in the other house, leader, got up and said, I find myself in the
position of agreeing with everything the speaker just said.
So they've done a public dinner.
Public, large public dinner.
How recent is this?
May 7th.
Yeah.
Did it make any news?
Because I haven't seen it.
Well, I'll provide news.
Yeah, you might be interested.
I heard that from a librarian in the Midwest, basically.
No, we don't get, I mean, the media doesn't cover it.
I mean, if we were in New York, and the New York Times would be writing every other week about it.
I mean, you know.
That's a big story.
It should be the big story.
The fact that it was proposed.
Right.
Just the fact that it was proposed.
Well, the library community was very good on this.
I mean, they really went to bat.
Of course, the great supporters like Mark Hatfield and Claiborne Pell were at the hearing, Pat Moynihan, they were all at the hearing denouncing this study and asking.
This didn't get any exposure.
No, it should have, really.
It's got some, but it's very limited.
But we don't, we get very little exposure.
I read New York Times every day, and I don't remember saying it.
No, if the Messiah were to appear in the main reading room, it wouldn't be covered.
You know?
That's probably a good one to close on, John.
It's just going to help us a little bit with that.
This is really a treat, Dr. Craig.
No, no, no.
It was fun to talk to you.
It's fun to see that somebody's written a book like you have.
I'll really look forward to it.
It's going into its sixth print.
I'll look forward to it.
Again, I didn't even ask you about the problems here, because I think they've been... Yeah, I think we're...
Well, chronicled.
Well, they've been over-chronicled, actually.
But it's a funny thing about books, because there is a certain low-level kleptomania about books.
I mean, people just get a tribute to the book in a way that people can't part with books.
even though they know they borrowed it from somebody.
I'm not talking about the libraries.
I mean, I had a very free, as a teacher, I would lend books quite often to students and so forth, and I was very unsystematic about it.
I lost a lot of books, but somehow I have a kind of sloppy, slobic attitude towards this.
Not as a hopeless librarian of conscience, but in my own approach.
I mean, if somebody wants a book, I just lend it to them and hope it would bring it back.
I told Boyard, loaning a book is like waiting up for your daughter on her first date to come home, waiting for that book to come back.
I don't loan books, I'd rather buy a person a book.
But Herbert Putnam, in 1907, was a librarian, decided to start lending books.
He actually started in 1901, but Congress criticized him about 1905, and he came back and said, well, I would rather take a chance
knowing someone is using a book, not looping that book, then I would have it sitting back on the shelves, and this is its proper attitude for the National Library.
And he responded, and that's what he always did.
And what he didn't say was that we put some books off limits for loan from the beginning.
Rare books, and now genealogy.
We lend to other libraries, basically.
But it's a very American, we have this really basically American attitude of trying to.
One of the interesting things, by shutting the stacks, and the major thing we did, which really has made a difference, was just to shut the stacks, basically.
And what that has meant has meant that, well, those of us like me who love to browse in stacks aren't able to do so anymore.
It does mean that the percentage of books on the shelf for the people in the reading room has gone up.
Because one of the problems of having people with sex is not just theft, but of course misplacement and the Slavic approach to where you put the books.
I don't understand that reference, the Slavic approach?
Don't want to be hard on the slobs, because I've studied all my life.
But then you become soft.
That's a new one, aren't you?
That was so funny.
I remember the great...
a Russian scholar who had been a colleague of mine at Harvard.
And when he retired at Harvard, he had no pension.
And I, at that time, was moving to Princeton.
So I got to Princeton to pick him up.
And so he taught for another 10 years down there toward Florovsky, the greatest Russian theologian philosopher probably in a century.
He was an incredible man.
And a fantastic bibliophile.
Well, he became very dependent on me.
And he was running out of
And the university kept him on with about 70 regular appointments.
And finally, that ran out.
And he said, how am I going to survive?
And I said, well, why don't you sell your books to the library?
So he said, OK.
So what he did was he sold the books, beginning with his worst ones, very scientifically, to the library.
And then he went and took them all out as soon as they were in and kept them out indefinitely.
Oh, that's a funny story.
And then they got mixed up.
So when the books he was selling, he was so sloppy about it, he had all the books piled up.
And so then he began reselling books that he'd already sold.
He would send a whole pack of books.
It is funny.
He couldn't let go.
I mean, he really couldn't.
You do get...
It's a very funny story.
Well, we need to go.